# APPLICATION INSIGHTS
## Overview

Application Insights comes as part of Visual Studio. You get automatic instrumentation for ASP.NET developers and vital application telemetry data right out of the box; including usage, exceptions, requests, performance, and logs.

Monitor web apps—whether written in Java, Ruby, Python, PHP, Node.JS, or other languages—using open source SDKs. Install the Status Monitor on your existing Azure App Services and virtual machines through the Azure portal to get performance monitoring without needing to update and redeploy your application.

Visual Studio Application Insights is an extensible analytics service that monitors your live web application. With it you can detect and diagnose performance issues, and understand what users actually do with your app. It's designed for developers, to help you continuously improve performance and usability. It works for apps on a wide variety of platforms including .NET, Node.js and J2EE, hosted on-premises or in the cloud.

It provides benefits as:
* Exceptions and performance diagnostics.
* Interactive data analysis.
* Azure diagnostics.
* Proactive detection.

## How does it work?  

You install a small instrumentation package in your application, and set up an Application Insights resource in the Microsoft Azure portal. The instrumentation monitors your app and sends telemetry data to the portal. The portal shows you statistical charts and provides powerful search tools to help you diagnose any problems.  

Application Insights has several standard instrumentation modules that collect different types of telemetry such as request response times, exceptions, and dependency calls. You can also write code to send custom telemetry to the portal.

## What's the overhead?  

The impact on your app's performance is very small. Tracking calls are non-blocking, and are batched and sent in a separate thread.

## What does it do?

Application Insights is aimed at the development team, to help you understand how your app is performing and how it's being used. It provides:

* Telemetry types:
    * HTTP request rates, response times, success rates.
    * Dependency (HTTP & SQL) call rates, response times, success rates.
    * Exception traces from both server and client.
    * Diagnostic log traces.
    * Page view counts, user and session counts, browser load times, exceptions.
    * AJAX call rates, response times and success rates.
    * Server performance counters.
    * Custom client and server telemetry.
    * Segmentation by client location, browser version, OS version, server instance, custom dimensions, and more.
    * Availability tests  

* Diagnostic and analytic tools:
    * Smart and manual alerts on failure rates and other metrics, and on availability.
    * Charts over time of aggregated metrics.
    * Diagnostic search on instances of requests, exceptions, custom events, log traces, page views, dependency and AJAX calls.
    * Analytics - a powerful query language over your telemetry
    * Dashboards - compose the charts you need to monitor all your app components.