# GET STARTED

Visual Studio Team Services simplifies continuous integration for your applications regardless of what platform you are targeting, or what language you are using.

- Build on Linux, Mac, and Windows.

- Use multi-platform build agents for Android, iOS, Java, .NET, and other applications.

- Seamless integration with work, test, code, build, and release.

- Track your builds with real-time build status.

## Continuous Integration

When many developers collaborate on complex software projects, it can be a long and unpredictable process to integrate different parts of code together. However, you can make this process more efficient and more reliable if you build and deploy your project continuously.

**Continuous integration** (CI) is the process of integrating your code into a shared repository as frequently as possible. During code integration, a build break or a test failure can inform you, in a timely manner, of an error in your code.

Martin Fowler has the following breakdown of practices for continuous integration:

- Maintain a single source repository.
- Automate the build.
- Make your build self-sustaining.
- Check in at least once a day.
- Build each check-in on the CI server.
- Keep the build fast.
- Test in a clone of the production environment.
- Make it easy for anyone to get the most recent executable.
- Always be aware of what is happening.
- Automate deployment.

For more information, see the following page on Martin Fowler's Web site: [Continuous Integration](http://www.martinfowler.com/articles/continuousIntegration.html)  

Visual Studio Team Services help you manage the end-to-end process of software development and supports the practice of continuous integration. By leveraging the capabilities of Visual Studio, your project can avoid unexpected delays, cost overruns, and execution risks.

### Advantages

These are some of the advantages of continuous integration:

- You catch build breaks early on.
- In a distributed development environment where developers do not always communicate with one another, continuous integration is a great way to assure the developer that the build he or she is building is the latest one.
- Continuous integration also causes less regression.
- The feedback loop is smaller.
- A developer does not have to wait for the end of the day or week to find out how the check-in affected the build.
- Integration testing moves up in the chain.
- Every commit goes through the integration testing where problems are caught early.
- Continuous integration enforces better development processes.
- Each developer is held accountable.
- You always have a latest-and-greatest build to use in demos, showcases, etc...

