# TEST APPS EARLY AND OFTEN 

Test continuously while you code, build, and deploy your app. Find problems before launching your app or updates into production. You can then better assess whether your app meets your customers' needs and is ready for release.

# Pull Requests

Pull requests let your team give feedback on changes in feature branches before merging the code into the master branch. 
Reviewers can step through the proposed changes, leave comments, and vote to approve or reject the code.

# Managing Technical Debt

Technical debt is the set of problems in a development effort that make forward progress on customer value inefficient.  Technical debt saps productivity by making code hard to understand, fragile, difficult to validate, and creates unplanned work that blocks progress. Technical debt is insidious.  It starts small and grows over time through rushed changes, lack of context and lack of discipline. Organizations often find that more than 50% of their capacity is sapped by technical debt.

SonarQube is an open source platform that is the de facto solution for understanding and managing technical debt.

## Manual and exploratory testing

Create manual test cases to check that each of the deliverables meet your users' needs. Organize your test cases by adding test cases to test suites. Then choose which testers you want to run the tests.

### Manual testing

Use the Test hub to coordinate all test management activities including test planning, authoring, execution, and tracking from a central location. The Test hub gives product owners and business analysts critical insight into progress against defined acceptance criteria and quality metrics.

### Exploratory testing

The exploratory testing tool includes action recording, commenting with annotations, rich data capture, and bug-reporting capabilities. Also use it to quickly and easily create test cases from exploratory test recordings and add them to test plans and suites for future manual or automated test passes.

## Automated UI Testing

Performing user interface testing as part of the build process is a great way of detecting unexpected changes and need not be difficult. 

## Load and Performance Testing

Performance test your code with hundreds of thousands of users using Visual Studio Team Services.

- Load test web sites, apps and APIs.
- Scale to hundreds of thousands of concurrent users.
- Deep analysis with rich diagnostics, trace and exception logging.
- Generate load from multiple regions worldwide.
- 20,000 virtual user minutes FREE every month.

