# CONCLUSION

For an effective reuse of code we create our own **Nuget** packages along with **Package Manager** extension. This allows teams to share common code and dependencies across all the projects, managing effectively versions and distribution of the packages.

Remember this extension is still in preview version.

## Install VSTS extensions

Extensions are published in the Visual Studio Marketplace, and extends capabilities of VSTS, like **Package Manager** in this case. Making VSTS and ecosystem where other developers can contribute with new features.

### Package manager extension

This extension add the capability of publishing our own Nuget packages feeds to share across our VSTS projects and developers. It will integrate seamlessly with Team Build tasks to create, publish and consume packages with new added tasks from the extension.

It wil also provide a feed we can connect to from Visual Studio for the developers to consume the published packages.

## Custom Nuget packages

We created a custom Nuget Package from a common dependency, a class library in this example, which we will distribute via VSTS Package Manager. Remember you will need to create and customize your **nuspec** definition file to create the custom package.

## Publishing Nuget packages

Once the package is developed and tested, we will use new Team Build tasks, installed with the **Package Manager**, so we can build, create and publish the packages to our own feed or other external feeds indeed.

## Consuming packages

Once the developers have added their feed to Visual Studio, they will be able to install the published packages in the feed.

